# Foraging_mode_evo_2022

This README.txt file was generated by Dylan J. Padilla Perez on 2022-05-25


GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Title of Dataset: Data from: The correlated evolution of foraging mode and reproductive output in lizards

2. Author Information
	A. Principal Investigator Contact Information
		Name: Dylan J. Padilla Perez
		Institution: Arizona State University
		Address: School of Life Sciences
		Email: dpadil10@asu.edu

        B. Principal Investigator Contact Information
		Name: Dale F. DeNardo
		Institution: Arizona State University
		Address: School of Life Sciences
		Email: denardo@asu.edu

	C. Associate or Co-investigator Contact Information
		Name: Michael J. Angilletta Jr.
		Institution: Arizona State University
		Address: School of Life Sciences
		Email: ma@asu.edu



3. Data collection: We used published estimates of life history and foraging behavior for 485 species of lizards grouped in 32 families, excluding amphisbaenians and snakes. These data represent a subset of those assembled by ecologists from primary and secondary literatures (Meiri, 2018).  (for more detail, see Meiri, 2018). Phylogenetic path analyses were informed by a recent time-calibrated phylogeny for squamate taxa (Zheng & Wiens, 2016).


SHARING/ACCESS INFORMATION

1. Licenses/restrictions placed on the data: NA


2. Links to other publicly accessible locations of the data: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/geb.12773, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1055790315003127

3. Was data derived from another source? Yes. The data set used in our study is a subset of a large data base compiled by Meiri (2018).



DATA & FILE OVERVIEW

1. File List: evo_body_size_mass2.csv, code3.html, code3.Rmd, likelihood_nodes_ASER.csv, likelihood_nodes_ASERT.csv, likelihood_nodes_ASSYM2.csv, likelihood_nodes_ASSYMT.csv

2. Are there multiple versions of the dataset? no


METHODOLOGICAL INFORMATION

1. Description of methods used for collection/generation of data: 

Data source

We used published estimates of life history and foraging behavior for 485 species of lizards grouped in 32 families, excluding amphisbaenians and snakes. These data represent a subset of those assembled by ecologists from primary and secondary literatures (Meiri, 2018). We defined the foraging mode of a species based on whether it has been reported as ambushing prey (sit-and-wait forager), searching for prey (widely foraging), or using a mixed strategy (mixed). To determine the appropriate model of evolution, we used a set of continuous-time, discrete-state Markov-chain models to sample the character histories from their posterior probability distribution. We estimated phylogenetic signal (character dispersion on a phylogeny) using Fritz and Purvis’ D test. Finally, We used Phylogenetic Generalized Least Squares (PGLS) to model the relationship among maternal mass, foraging mode, and reproductive output.

2. Instrument- or software-specific information needed to interpret the data:  We performed all the analyses using the free software R 4.1.1 for Mac OS (https://AQ11 www.R-project.org/).


DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: evo_body_size_mass2.csv

1. Number of variables: The dataset consist of a data frame containing 588 observations of 25 variables.

2. Number of cases/rows: 588 observations

3. Missing data codes: NA

4. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: NA


---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: likelihood_nodes_ASER.csv

2. Number of variables: The dataset consists of the posterior probability distribution estimates for each internal node. This analysis includes all lizards and the outgroup (i.e., the tuatara).

---


DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: likelihood_nodes_ASERT.csv


3. Number of variables: The dataset consists of the posterior probability distribution estimates for each internal node. This analysis includes all lizards but not the outgroup.


---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: likelihood_nodes_ASSYM2.csv


4. Number of variables: The dataset consists of the posterior probability distribution estimates for each internal node. We excluded species adopting a mixed-foraging strategy, but the outgroup was included.

---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: likelihood_nodes_ASSYMT.csv


5. Number of variables: The dataset consists of the posterior probability distribution estimates for each internal node. We excluded species adopting a mixed-foraging strategy and the outgroup.

---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: code3.html

6. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: Built reproducible workflow containing all data analyses, including good quality figures and tables.

---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: code3.Rmd

7. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: R markdown file containing the fully reproducible workflow of the analyses. This is the script used to render the file 'code3.html' in R.

---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: style.css

8. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: This is a style sheet that contains the settings for visualization of tables, figures, and code included in the 'code3.html' file. Readers should download all files and save them in the same folder so that the 'code3.html' file remains with the desired settings.


---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: tree.nex

9. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: Time-calibrated phylogeny from (Zheng & Wiens, 2016). Please download the tree from the paper and name it "tree.nex" for further use in our analyses.
